We always say anti-aging, anti-aging.
but have you ever thought that
“Aging” and “Senescence” may be different concepts.
Aging refers to the imprint of time.
It is the natural progression of age.
It is an objective rule.
It is something that none of us can escape.
senescence, on the other hand, refers to the loss of vitality
It involves Functional disorder and degeneration.
It can occur at
any stage of our lives
and is not necessarily related to time or age.
If we compare our lives
to a river,
Aging is like the river flowing continuously forward,
while senescence is like the river
initially having plenty of
water , then gradually slowing down, decreasing,
and eventually drying up.
Aging, to some extent, is irreversible,
just as our river flows continuously forward,
and time is unidirectional.
However, senescence can be mitigated through regular exercise,
a healthy diet,
or proper care. Since we can regulate it,
what we usually call anti-aging
should more accurately be called anti-senescence.
That is, we use various methods
and good skincare to regulate it,
so that our skin
can stay in a good state
for a longer period of time,
and and the water in our 'river channel' can remain as abundant as possible,
so that we will look young.
Hi everyone, I’m Formulator Xingxing.
Today I’m going to talk about the “3+1 Anti-senescence（Aging） Method”.
Before we officially talk about Anti-senescence methods,
let's think about a question,
What are the characteristics of youthful skin
versus aging skin?
Youthful skin
has elasticity,
glows with no wrinkles,
no dark spots, with great complexion.
Aging skin, however,
shows poor complexion,
looks dull and yellowish,
and has liver spots,
melasma appears,
wrinkles show up,
skin sags and becomes deflated.
So how does a person age?
How does the water in the river disappear?
We divide this process
into three stages
These three stages are the Radiance Decline Stage,
the Wrinkle Formation Stage, and the Sagging & Deflation Stage.
Stage One — Radiance Decline Stage,
refers to changes in skin radiance,
skin tone, and complexion.
Typical signs are tired-looking skin,
yellowish and dull,
darkened skin,
even loss of glow and elasticity.
Spots also begin to appear on the face.
Stage Two — Wrinkle Formation Stage.
At this stage,
we first notice
wrinkles appear when making facial expressions—
such as crow's feet and
expression lines
Gradually, even without expressions,
wrinkles also appear on the face
like nasolabial folds,
marionette lines, and
tear troughs — these are static wrinkles (true wrinkles).
Stage Three — Sagging & Deflation Stage.
As wrinkles deepen,
the elasticity and support of the skin
further decreases.
Then you see your face
is no longer holding up.
It sags and the jawline expands,
eventually collapsing downward.
Of course, because everyone's skin type
and environment are different
therefore,
the timing of these stages may vary
from person to person.
But the overall progression is similar.
It follows this sequence
as we mentioned earlier, aging is an objective law that
we cannot resist.
Once your Aging progresses
into the next stage,
it is very difficult to reverse it to the previous stage.
Therefore,
we need to use proper skincare methods to combat senescence,
and keep your skin
stay in the current stage as long as possible.
long as possible. To give
an example, if we don't take care of our skin,
our radiance might fade by age 25 and
our face might sag by age 35.
But if we take good care of ourselves,
our radiance might only start to fade at age 30,
and our face might not sag by age 55.
Wouldn't we look younger than our peers?
After listening to my
description of the phenomena in these three stages,
it's easy to see
which stage
you're currently in.
If you're still young
and haven't entered these three stages yet , then we
should try our best to avoid stepping into them
through proper skincare.
But if you're already
in one of these three stages,
then our anti-senescence goal
is to stop time in that stage.
Hearing this, you're probably eager
to learn the methods that follow,
but before we get to the main topic... Before
we need to understand one crucial concept.
They are Functional disorder and Organic change.
So what is Functional disorder?
For example,
if you have diarrhea
or a headache,
and you go to the hospital
for a colonoscopy
or an endoscopy,
or a brain CT scan,
the results
might be completely normal.
You still experience
But you do have diarrhea.
Your head really hurts.
This means that
your organs themselves haven't changed,
heir functions have been impaired,
It malfunctions,
leading to illness.
You feel uncomfortable.
So then what is Organic change?
For example, not only stomach discomfort,
also a stomach ulcer
Or due to high blood lipids,
you have a cerebral infarction.
However, after visiting the hospital,
changes can be detected through gastroscopy or head CT scans
scans, as they can detect changes
in these organs.
In other words,
when we observe structural changes in organs
through imaging,
this is referred to as organic change.
The aging process of the body
is essentially
an evolution from functional impairment to structural change.
As the largest organ in the body, the skin
also follows this pattern.
Now let's review
the three stages of skin aging.
The first stage is the loss of radiance.
During this stage,
the overall metabolic rate of
our skin begins to slow down,
and a large number of free radicals
or free sugars
accumulate in the skin . These substances
adhere to the collagen,
causing it
to denature. As a result, your skin will darken,
and lose its structural support. This decreases
sskin elasticity and radiance, leading to duller skin.
In simple terms,
the skin
has developed typical functional impairments
due to external aggressors.
Our main focus in skincare during this period
is to address
the factors contributing to these impairments. For instance, if
the skin is damaged
due to an excess of free radicals,
we eliminate those free radicals.
If the skin’s function
is caused by an excess of free sugars,
we fight glycation,
by reducing free sugars and
advanced glycation end-products.
In skincare terms,
we focus on four things:
anti-oxidation, anti-glycation,
anti-carbonylation, and anti-blue light.
These are the four main approaches to maintaining skin function.
And what about the ingredients that support these functions?
There are many, such as the Vitamin C family
(Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid), VCIP, 3-O-Ethyl Ascorbic Acid (Ethyl Ascorbic Acid), etc.),
or the polyphenol family
Tea Polyphenols
anthocyanins, oleuropein,
hydroxytyrosol,
and the carotenoid family
lycopene,
astaxanthin,
as well as various antioxidant and anti-carbonylation ingredients
such as Tocopherol,
ergothioneine,
idebenone, and Ubiquinone. SOD
and other good ingredients for anti-glycation and anti-blue light,
such as carnosine and Anserine.
I've listed so many ingredients at once,
you might feel dizzy,
but their functions don't overlap. Instead,
they each have their own areas of expertise.
For example, ingredients like 3-O-Ethyl Ascorbic Acid (Ethyl Ascorbic Acid)
and Oleuropein、 Hydroxytyrosol
they are more suitable for oily skin of anti-oxidation,
while ingredients like Tocopherol,
astaxanthin, and VCIP
are more suitable for dry skin in terms of anti-oxidation.
There are also some special ingredients,
such as idebenone
and Ubiquinone,
which have strong effects
but they can be irritating
and not suitable for sensitive skin.
On the contrary,
ingredients like baicalin and rutin
are practically designed for sensitive skin.
Okay, now we've finished
the first stage,
which focuses on four key anti-aging strategies:
anti-oxidation,
anti-carbonylation,
anti-glycation, and anti-blue light.
The second stage is the wrinkle appearance stage.
At this stage,
we first need to distinguish
what type of wrinkles you have on your face.
One type is wrinkles
that appear when you make facial expressions,
such as laughing or
crying, etc.
only then wrinkles show up.
But when you are expressionless,
you don’t see noticeable wrinkles.
This type is called Pseudo wrinkles,
also known as expression lines.
The second type
remains on your face even without expressions,
still visible.
Like your forehead lines,
nasolabial folds,
marionette lines, tear troughs, etc.
These are called True wrinkles.
In summary,
when your wrinkles are mainly expression lines,
your skin
your skin is primarily in a state of functional decline.
However, when your wrinkles are mainly
true wrinkles,
you've entered
a stage of organic change.
This change
leads to
completely different ingredients
and skincare methods.
In the expression line stage,
our skincare theme
should continue the four-pronged approach from the previous stage,
while also
incorporating
a type of ingredient unique to this stagee —
Neuro-signaling peptides.
Since pseudo-wrinkles,
also known as  expression lines,
they are caused by
excessive facial expressions and
muscle contraction.
Neurotransmitter peptides
can inhibit
or slow down
the frequency and intensity of these skin contractions.
When the contractions become less
frequent,
your wrinkles fade
and lessen.
Common ingredients of this type
include botulinum toxin,
snake venom peptides, and Idealifting.
Spiropeptides and similar
ingredients
work by mimicking the effects of Botox
to reduce skin contraction
and thus reduce wrinkles.
However, once true wrinkles appear,
superficial methods like reducing facial contraction
become ineffective.
At this point, we need to focus on
increasing collagen in the dermis of the skin,
elastin,
and fibronectin in the dermis
improving its structural support
and helping it regain firmness.
A typical ingredient
well-suited for this
the Retinol (Vitamin A) family,
Its derivatives include
plant-derived retinoids.
Both families are suitable.
It's important to note that
becauseVitamin A has a property —
while thickening the dermis,
it thins the stratum corneum.
So,
for East Asians who naturally have a thinner stratum corneum,
the irritation risk of Vitamin A
is relatively high.
So at this stage, when applying ingredients,
there is one principle:
“Step by step.”
We start with gentler plant-derived retinoids
or retinyl esters,
then gradually transition to retinol,
and then further to retinaldehyde (Retinal).
Moreover,
the concentration must also increase gradually.
Start low, then go higher.
Do not take chances here.
If your skin crashes and becomes irritated,
your skin will age faster.
As wrinkles deepen
and skin support continues to weaken,
we enter 3rd Stage —
Sagging & Deflation Stage.
This stage
visually,
the face changes dramatically,
so it’s often called a “cliff-like aging stage.”
Whether your skin is sagging,
deflated, or drooping,
it all comes down to **Organic change**.
On a microscopic level,
at this stage,
what happens to our skin?
Massive collagen loss,
elastic fiber bundles snapping apart,
the basement membrane’s adhesion weakens,
epidermis and dermis stop communicating,
no metabolic exchange between them.
The whole skin loses its moisturizing ability,
and stability drops significantly.
Some may think:
“I’m already so old,
shouldn’t I use something strong
to bring my skin back to life?”
I’m telling you — absolutely not.
Because your skin barrier system
is undergoing a full-scale collapse.
At this moment,
your barrier system
barely functions.
If you add strong actives,
there’s only one outcome —
allergic reaction.
And if you get irritated now,
it will further
speed up your aging process,
making your face more saggy, dry, and deflated.
So the main task of skincare at this moment
is not to use strong products
to reverse time,
but to do our best
to help the skin maintain
good moisturized,
and comfortable state .
Because the skin
will become increasingly dry
so in product selection,
we must focus on
products and ingredients with higher lipid content,
Only in this way can it seal in moisture
and reduce water loss,
maintaining barrier integrity.
At the same time, we can also use
ingredients that help the skin produce fillers.
Typical ingredients
include Pro-Xylane,
Sodium Hyaluronate Crosspolymer, Acetylated Hyaluronic Acid,
Collagen
Fibronectin
Elastin / Hydrolyzed Elastin.
And then there
are oil-based ingredients
that can replenish the sebum film and interstitial fluid,
such as squalane and
Limnanthes Alba Seed Oil.
When the skin is fully moisturized,
softened, and plumped,
we can make our face
look softer,
more hydrated, more radiant,
and fuller than before.
Speaking of which,
some people will definitely ask,
do the ingredients and products for these three stages
overlap?
Well, they don't really overlap much.
So you must
use the right product for the right stage.
If you use the wrong one,
you may end up looking
older even after fighting aging for so long.
Another question is,
What exactly can skincare
achieve?
If my methods are correct,
and taken in time,
can this stage be reversed?
Here’s the answer:
if you are still in the **Functional Disorder** stage,
that means —
the dullness phase or expression-line phase,
then timely skincare
with correct methods
has a chance of restoring it to some extent.
But if you’ve entered the **Organic Change** stage,
such as true wrinkles,
and sagging face,
the longer you stay in organic change,
the slower the recovery becomes,
the longer it take,
and simple skincare can hardly reverse it.
Therefore, our anti-aging not only requires the right methods but
also timely intervention.
Next, let’s talk about anti-aging for each stage
and the products they correspond to.
Before choosing products, we should pay attention to the following
When we choose the products
for our current stage,
we must also keep
a product from the previous stage.
For example, if I am in the wrinkle stage
and I am using retinol,
I should also combine
antioxidants from the dullness phase
and anti-glycation products
Because among the three stages,
previous stage is the cause of the next stage.
the previous stage causes the next,
Let’s start with Stage One —
the Dullness Stage.
What can we use?
at this stage.
If you are not allergic to Vitamin C,
and your skin absorbs it well,
then Vitamin C family products
are definitely the first choice.
However, if your skin is sensitive
or if you have used Vitamin C
and it easily oxidizes and stains your skin,
we will introduce other products later.
Next, I will divide into:
Beginner, Intermediate, and Advanced levels
to introduce products for each level.
First group — beginners in skincare.
At this stage,
we choose Vitamin C derivative serums,
or other low-irritation antioxidant serums.
Oily skin can choose these, such as Kiehl’s Clearly Corrective Dark Spot Solution
and The Ordinary Ascorbyl Glucoside Solution 12% Face Serum.
If you can buy
products in mainland China,
there are two other products that are very suitable for this stage:
They are Diary’s
“Olive VC Antioxidants Serum” and “Yeast Edelweiss Essence”.
As for dry skin,
you can choose these —
which can moisturize the skin
while achieving antioxidant and anti-glycation purposes,
such as Replenix, Discoloration, Vitamin C Pro Collagen Serum,
The Ordinary Ascorbyl 20% in Vitamin F.
The Ordinary The Ordinary Resveratrol 3% + Ferulic Acid 3%
and Dermasensa C Super Serum 20% VCIP.
If you're no longer a beginner
and need something more advanced,
we can go for pure Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) serums.
In this section,
I have two favorites:
Alra's Vitamin C Supra molecular Serum—
it super-molecularizes Vitamin C
to make it more stable.
Another is Acaderma Invisible Shield Defense Serum—
a very well-balanced formula,
and very gentle to use.
Besides these,
there are also other products suitable for intermediate users.
For example, Murad Vita -C Glycolic Brightening Serum,
Clarins Double Serum Hydric + Lipidic System,
Paula's Choice Resist Advanced Replenishing Toner,
and The Ordinary Multi-Antioxidant Radiance Serum.
If you have higher skincare needs
and your skincare routine
is already at an advanced level,
you can choose more classic, stable,
and better-absorbing Vitamin C serums,
or
very comprehensive antioxidant serums.
For example, Cellex-C High Potency Serum,
SkinCeuticals C E Ferulic,Phyto-C Supreme Serum
Obagi Professional-C Serum,
Galenic No1 VC Serum.
Here 's Elizabeth Arden Prevage® Anti-Aging Daily Serum 2.0
A reminder here:
because many of the products I just mentioned
have relatively high concentration
Ascorbic Acid products,
if you live in a warmer climate,
such as subtropical or tropical regions,
please be aware:
after you buy them,
store them in the refrigerator.
And choose more stable formulations.
For example, Galenic No1 VC Serum,
which stores VC powder separately from its solution,
so it lasts longer.
So after the Dullness Stage,
we move to Wrinkle Appearance Stage products.
At this stage,
as mentioned earlier,
we must distinguish what kind of wrinkles you have —
mainly expression lines (pseudo-wrinkles),
or true wrinkles.
If it’s expression lines,
we choose **Neuro-Signaling Peptides**
to reduce facial muscle contraction,
thereby reducing wrinkles.
For true wrinkles,
we choose retinol family products
to boost collagen,
and improve skin support.
For pseudo-wrinkles and expression lines,
these products are suitable:
The Ordinary Argireline Solution 10%
The Ordinary Matrixyl 10% + HA,The Ordinary Multi-Peptide + HA Serum,
Paula's Choice Pro-Collagen Multi-Peptide Booster,
DRUNK ELEPHANT Protini™ Polypeptide Cream,
Skinceuticals P-TIOX,
and Peter Thomas Roth Peptide 21 Wrinkle Resist Serum/Peter Thomas Roth Peptide 21 Wrinkle Resist Moisturizer,
Though they use different peptides,
their mechanism
and results are similar.
You can
choose based on skin feel and budget.
Once true wrinkles appear —
we need to focus on retinol family.
Here,
I categorized from beginner to advanced
into three levels.
Choose according to your experience
with retinoids.
Entry level means you have no
experience using retinoids:
Check these:
like Ren Bio Retinol Youth Concentrate,
Elizabeth Arden Ceramide Capsules Rentionl+HPR serum
Neutrogena healthy skin abti-wrinkle cream
Uniskin Black Gravity Serum, and
Murad's Retinol youth Serum.
For intermediate level —
you’ve used retinoid derivatives
or low-strength retinol before,
then look at these:
Neutrogena Retinol Boost,
Darphin ECLAT SUBLIME YOUTH RENEWING RETINOL CAPSULES,
Paula's Choice Clinical 0.3% Retinol + 2% Bakuchiol Treatment
CeraVe Skin Renewing Retinol Serum
and The Ordinary Retinol 0.5% In Squalane Face Serum
and L'Oréal Paris Revitalift Pure Retinol Night Serum
At advanced level — only experts enter,
concentrations are high,
use with caution:
Paulas Choice Clinical Pro Retinaldehyde Dual-Retinoid Treatment,
KateSomerville Power Serum,
ZO Retinol Skin Brightener 1%,
and DRUNK ELEPHANT A-Passioni™ Retinol Cream.
When using retinoids,
another reminder:
try pairing soothing products,
to use together.
For example,
ingredients like TRPV1 inhibitor 1609,
as Eucerin UltraSENSITIVE REPAIR GEL
and Avène Tolérance REPAIR Crème apaisante restauratrice Soothing skin recovery cream .
Also those with Niacinamide,
Ceramides, or Vitamin B5 (Panthenol),
are suitable to combine with retinoids.
For those who are just starting to use retinoids,
you must progress gradually from beginner level,
before moving into advanced levels.
using them in order.
Don't skip  levels.
If you develop irritation at any stage,
you must stop using it immediately.
The signs of irritation
include redness, stinging, or peeling, etc.
This is because if your skin is in a sensitive state
it can accelerate aging.
So please don’t take risks.
Okay, now we understand the second stage products,
we have a clear idea in mind.
Next is the third stage—
the sagging and deflated stage.
Generally speaking,
at this stage,
most people are usually over 50 years old.
And for women,
this is mostly post-menopause.
which makes them prone to enter this stage.
At this stage,
our skincare focus becomes full hydration,
nourishment,
plumping, and maintaining barrier integrity and stability.
A typical ingredient suitable for this stage
is Pro-Xylane.
Products containing Pro-Xylane,
include Helena Rubinstein Re-Plasty Age Recovery Night Cream and
SkinCeuticals A.G.E. Interrupter Advanced.
Both of them
contain 30% Pro-Xylane under L’Oréal Group.
Their formulas are very similar,
with only one or two small differences.
In terms of texture,
slight differences can be felt.
Choose based on your preference.
And there’s something else:
Helena Rubinstein
recently upgraded its Re-Plasty Age Recovery Night Cream
to the PX50 Re-Plasty Age Recovery Night Cream.
Meaning—
the Pro-Xylane content
increased from 30% to 50%.
You can’t help but sigh:
the skincare industry is really competitive!
Of course, if your budget allows,
you can go directly for the 50% one — also great.
Within the L’Oréal Group,
there are also more affordable Pro-Xylane versions,
such as this one with 21% concentration,
Yue Sai Gold Cream.
If you can access Mainland products,
Diary 50% Pro-Xylane Day & Night Cream are also good.
Besides Pro-Xylane,
similar roles can be found in
filling Hyaluronic Acid and Collagen products.
Some products,
I mentioned in previous videos.
Here are some examples again:
Kate Somerville Dermal Energizing Treatment,
Strivectin Sd Advanced Intensive Concentrate For Wrinkles
La Prairie Anti-Aging Rapid Response Booster
Paula's Choice peptide booster,
andDarphin Stimulskin Plus Baume Sculptant De Nuit.
Actually,
besides the ones above,
there are emerging ingredients
that are suitable for this stage.
For example, longevity-science-related ingredients,
such as Estee Lauder Group’s Sirtuin-activating ingredients,
which act on the Sirtuins family (longevity proteins),
helping protect telomeres,
and promote collagen production,
so suitable for this stage too.
A typical example is the Estee Lauder Re-Nutriv Black Diamond series.
Another ingredient suitable for this stage
is the increasingly popular PDRN.
PDRN comes from salmon DNA fragments,
and these salmon DNA fragments
share about 95% similarity with human DNA.
So when your skin absorbs these DNA fragments,
they can be utilized by our cells
to activate cell activity,
self-repair
and stimulate collagen-producing pathways.
Previously,
PDRN was mainly used in injectable mesotherapy,
or ultra-luxury skincare brands like Valmont,
in very high-end product lines.
But now,
with technological advancement,
the challenge of PDRN skin absorption
has gradually been improved.
So we’ve been seeing more launches of
various topical PDRN products.
About these,
I will make a dedicated video later
to explain different types and sources of PDRN.
What are the differences between them,
and how should we choose the products?
If you're interested,
please stay tuned.
Now, now the signs and causes of the three stages,
as well as the corresponding methods and products,
have basically all been introduced.
However, speaking of this,
you may wonder:
isn't this the 3+1 anti-aging method?
Well, I understand
that the “3” refers to the three major stages.
So what does the “1” refer to?
The “1” refers to the eye area.
Because the eye area is a special region,
its skin structure is different,
so the products and methods needed are different, and
Different concerns require different solutions.
So it needs to be introduced separately.
it separately in
In the next video, we will focus on the “1” of the 3+1 anti-aging method,
which is eye care.
If you have dark circles,
eye bags or fine lines around the corners, stay tuned.
I’m Star, a formulation scientist.
If you like my video,
or find it helpful,
please like, subscribe, and Follow me.
I also have two daily anti-aging tips
to share you.
First, for those who like to sleep on their side, attention please:
when you sleep on your side every day,
your face is mechanically compressed.
And this compression deepens your wrinkles.
So for this issue,
I recommend preparing a memory foam pillow,
with a structured shape.
For example, the one I use—
it has a groove in the middle
to hold and support your face.
So when you sleep on your side
there won’t be excessive mechanical pressure.
And your wrinkles won’t deepen because of it.
Second, for people like me—
students and office workers who stare at screens daily,
because facing the screen all day,
the blue light emitted from the computer
is known to damage the skin.
But those screen filters sold on the market,
or anti-blue-light films, don’t really work.
They’re basically a waste of money.
Because they can only filter some short-wavelength blue light.
But for the high-energy blue light that truly harms skin,
they are practically useless.
So to protect skin from blue light,
there's a zero-
just keep your computer screen farther away from you.
You can use a laptop stand,
which naturally creates more distance.
When the distance exceeds 30 cm,
then the blue light
will have much less impact on your skin.